Hosting platform tools via docker compose on Docker for Windows Server or Desktop (#5155)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/platformtools-docker-compose/sample.md

---
title: Host platform tools using Docker for Windows
summary: Host the ServicePulse and ServiceControl platform tools using Docker Windows Containers for Server and Desktops
reviewed: 2020-12-14
related:
- samples/hosting/docker
---

> NOTE: This sample is **not production ready** as ports are remotely accessible and it is targeted to developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This sample is **not production ready** as ports are remotely accessible.
```

> This sample shows how to host the [ServicePulse](/servicepulse/) and [ServiceControl](/servicecontrol/) platform tools using Docker Windows Containers for Server and Desktops . It makes use of `docker-compose` to easily setup all platform tool components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample shows how to host the [ServicePulse](/servicepulse/) and [ServiceControl](/servicecontrol/) platform tools using Docker Windows Containers for Server and Desktops . It makes use of `docker-compose` to set up all platform tool components.
```

## Prerequisites

- Windows 10, Windows 2016+
- Ensure that Docker has been installed either for [Windows 10](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/windowscontainers/quick-start/set-up-environment?tabs=Windows-10-Client) or [Windows Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/virtualization/windowscontainers/quick-start/set-up-environment?tabs=Windows-Server)
- Valid license file available at `C:\ProgramData\ParticularSoftware\license.xml`
- SQL Server to be used by the configured SQL Transport

## Windows vs Linux

Currently Linux is unsupported as ServiceControl has a technical dependancy on ESENT storage which is only available on Windows.

> A compose file cannot setup both Windows and Linux containers at this writing. [ServicePulse supports both Windows and Linux containerization](/servicepulse/containerization/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A compose file cannot setup both Windows and Linux containers at time of writing. [ServicePulse supports both Windows and Linux containerization](/servicepulse/containerization/).
```

## License

As the platform tools are licensed software the sofware needs a license file. The license file in the sample assumes the default path `C:\ProgramData\ParticularSoftware\license.xml`.

## Storage

> ServiceControl requires storage. Data stored by ServiceControl must be persistent and not stored in the container itself as containers often need to be rebuild. ServiceControl Data is stored via [docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) which is resilient to container rebuilds so that data is not lost. This sample writes logs to a docker volume too to ensure logs are not lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ServiceControl requires storage. Data stored by ServiceControl must be persistent and not stored in the container itself as containers often need to be rebuilt. ServiceControl Data is stored via [docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) which is resilient to container rebuilds. This sample writes logs to a docker volume too to ensure logs are not lost.
```
